DroidProxy starts with a simple constraint.
Factory Droids are strongest when they
can use the models you already trust.
But many teams already pay for
Claude, ChatGPT, Gemini, or Kimi through subscription products.
DroidProxy bridges that gap with a
small native Mac app.
It lives in the menu bar,
signs in through normal OAuth flows,
and registers those accounts as custom
models in Factory.
The result is simple.
Same Droid workflow.
Your existing provider plans.
No API keys to copy.
No billing switch to rewire.
At the center is a two-server local design.
Droid CLI sends requests to ThinkingProxy
on localhost port eight three one seven.
ThinkingProxy is a thin Swift proxy
built on Network framework.
It forwards to a bundled CLIProxyAPI
process on port eight three one eight.
That backend owns provider OAuth and upstream calls.
Both servers stay on loopback, so
credentials and requests remain local until
the provider call leaves your Mac.
The settings window is where setup
becomes one click.
You connect Claude, ChatGPT, Gemini, and
Kimi with normal browser login.
DroidProxy watches the auth directory for
credential changes, expiration, and disabled accounts.
It also shows live Claude and
Codex quota windows, so you can
see what your subscription budget is
doing before a long session.
Once accounts are connected, the Apply
button writes Factory custom models.
The model catalog is source controlled
in DroidProxyModelCatalog dot swift.
Each entry includes provider routing, max
output tokens, and native reasoning metadata.
That lets Droid CLI expose reasoning
choices per session.
DroidProxy does not fake or inject
those reasoning levels.
It registers the supported levels, then
forwards the request body unchanged.
The request path is intentionally narrow.
For Claude thinking requests, DroidProxy adjusts
beta headers so visible thinking blocks work.
For GPT Fast Mode, it adds
service tier priority when the user
toggles it on.
For Gemini Code Assist models, it
rewrites Responses API paths to the
chat completions path the backend supports.
Everything else passes through with key
order preserved, which protects prompt cache behavior.
The app shell keeps the moving parts predictable.
AppDelegate starts the menu bar item,
launches ThinkingProxy first, waits for it
to listen, then starts the backend.
ServerManager owns the child process, merged
config, login commands, and cleanup for
orphaned backend processes.
AuthManager reads the provider files from
dot cli proxy api and enforces
safety rules like keeping one enabled
account per provider.
For contributors, the hotspots are clear.
SettingsView carries the SwiftUI control surface.
ThinkingProxy carries request parsing, routing, and
JSON insertion helpers.
ServerManager carries backend lifecycle and provider enablement.
The React website is small, separate,
and only markets the signed app bundle.
That separation keeps the product path focused.
The user downloads a notarized Apple Silicon app.
They sign in once.
They click Apply.
Factory gets a catalog of custom
models that route to localhost.
Droid gets the model selector it expects.
The upstream providers see normal authenticated requests.
You can remember DroidProxy as a
local adapter, not a new provider.
It supervises OAuth, registers models, and
smooths over a few protocol differences.
It does not take ownership of reasoning policy.
It does not expose a remote
backend by default.
It keeps the control plane in
a native Mac app and the
data path on localhost.
That is why it fits neatly beside Factory.
It makes existing subscriptions usable inside
Droids while keeping the workflow familiar,
local, and transparent.